Decision Tree Intuition, builds regression models in a form of a tree structure. 
Breaks down a dataset into smaller and smaller subsets while at the same time an associated 
decision tree is being developed, the final result is trees with decision nodes and 
leaf nodes. 

Visualise and draw a scatter plot that represents the dataset. 
lets say the scatter plot has two independent variables x1 and x2 and 
we are predicting the third variable which y.
inorder to view y, visualise it in a 3rd dimension. 

Also decision trees can be explained w one independent variable and one dependent variable. 

but here using two independent variables. 

Now run regression into scatter plot, its split scatter plot into segments 
split 1, split 2, split 3, split 4. 
how and why this splits are conducted is determined by the algorithm and this involves looking at 
something called the information entropy. 
simply means is any split in data point increasing or decreasing the amount of information we have 
about the data points. is it actually adding some value to the way that we want to group our data 
points or vice versa 
Once the algorithm cannot add any more information through splitting the data points, it stops 
splitting them. 

Decision tree algo is just finding the optimal splits in dataset into leaves 


Visualise drawing a new plot and start splitting 

first split happened at 20, x1 < 20 => yes or no 
split 2 happens at 170  and only happens to the pts that are greater than 20 , x2 < 170 
split 3 happens at 300 less than 20 and checks if x2 < 300 
split 4 happens at greater than 20 which is 40 and checks if x1 < 40 

now lets say we add an observation which is x = 30 and x2 = 50 so it falls into a specific leaf 
now how does that information help us interms of predicting the value of y 
solution 
take the averages of each of the terminal leafs 
take the average of y for all of these points and that will be value that will be assigned to 
any new pt that falls within this terminal leaf 

